docs/lib/content/commands/npm-version.md, before:

---
title: npm-version
section: 1
description: Bump a package version
---

### Synopsis

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS -->

### Configuration

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS -->

### Description

Run this in a package directory to bump the version and write the new data
back to `package.json`, `package-lock.json`, and, if present,
`npm-shrinkwrap.json`.

The `newversion` argument should be a valid semver string, a valid second
argument to [semver.inc](https://github.com/npm/node-semver#functions) (one
of `patch`, `minor`, `major`, `prepatch`, `preminor`, `premajor`,
`prerelease`), or `from-git`. In the second case, the existing version will
be incremented by 1 in the specified field.  `from-git` will try to read
the latest git tag, and use that as the new npm version.

If run in a git repo, it will also create a version commit and tag.  This
behavior is controlled by `git-tag-version` (see below), and can be
disabled on the command line by running `npm --no-git-tag-version version`.
It will fail if the working directory is not clean, unless the `-f` or
`--force` flag is set.

If supplied with `-m` or [`--message` config](/using-npm/config#message) option,
npm will use it as a commit message when creating a version commit.  If the
`message` config contains `%s` then that will be replaced with the resulting
version number. For example:

```bash
npm version patch -m "Upgrade to %s for reasons"
```

If the [`sign-git-tag` config](/using-npm/config#sign-git-tag) is set, then the
tag will be signed using the `-s` flag to git. Note that you must have a default
GPG key set up in your git config for this to work properly. For example:

```bash
$ npm config set sign-git-tag true
$ npm version patch

You need a passphrase to unlock the secret key for
user: "isaacs (http://blog.izs.me/) <i@izs.me>"
2048-bit RSA key, ID 6C481CF6, created 2010-08-31

Enter passphrase:
```

If `preversion`, `version`, or `postversion` are in the `scripts` property
of the package.json, they will be executed as part of running `npm
version`.

The exact order of execution is as follows:

1. Check to make sure the git working directory is clean before we get
   started.  Your scripts may add files to the commit in future steps.
   This step is skipped if the `--force` flag is set.
2. Run the `preversion` script. These scripts have access to the old
   `version` in package.json.  A typical use would be running your full
   test suite before deploying.  Any files you want added to the commit
   should be explicitly added using `git add`.
3. Bump `version` in `package.json` as requested (`patch`, `minor`,
   `major`, etc).
4. Run the `version` script. These scripts have access to the new `version`
   in package.json (so they can incorporate it into file headers in
   generated files for example).  Again, scripts should explicitly add
   generated files to the commit using `git add`.
5. Commit and tag.
6. Run the `postversion` script. Use it to clean up the file system or
   automatically push the commit and/or tag.

Take the following example:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "preversion": "npm test",
    "version": "npm run build && git add -A dist",
    "postversion": "git push && git push --tags && rm -rf build/temp"
  }
}
```

This runs all your tests and proceeds only if they pass. Then runs your
`build` script, and adds everything in the `dist` directory to the commit.
After the commit, it pushes the new commit and tag up to the server, and
deletes the `build/temp` directory.

#### Workspaces and Inter-Dependencies

When using `npm workspaces`, you might have multiple packages that depend on one another. For example:

```json
// package-a/package.json
{
  "name": "package-a",
  "version": "1.0.2"
}

// package-b/package.json
{
  "name": "package-b",
  "version": "1.0.2",
  "dependencies": {
    "package-a": "^1.0.2"
  }
}
```

#### Changes When Running `npm version -ws --save`

1. **Bump the versions in each workspace’s `package.json`.**
2. **Attempt to update cross-dependencies** where the new version fits into the declared semver range.

#### Note on `--save`
By default, `npm version -ws` will bump the versions in each workspace without automatically 
updating dependency references across workspaces. Including the `--save` flag triggers a 
minimal reify operation that updates references **if** your semver range allows it.

For example, if a dependency is declared as `^1.0.2`, a minor bump from `1.0.2` to `1.1.0` 
is valid under the caret range, so npm updates the reference to `^1.1.0`. However, 
moving from `1.x.x` to `2.x.x` is outside of the caret range. In that case, 
you must broaden the range (e.g., `">=1.0.0 <3.0.0"`, `"^1.0.0 || ^2.0.0"`, etc.) or 
manually update it to allow a major bump.

### See Also

* [npm init](/commands/npm-init)
* [npm run-script](/commands/npm-run-script)
* [npm scripts](/using-npm/scripts)
* [package.json](/configuring-npm/package-json)
* [config](/using-npm/config)

Commit message:

add noteon npm version without save

docs/lib/content/commands/npm-version.md, after:

---
title: npm-version
section: 1
description: Bump a package version
---

### Synopsis

<!-- AUTOGENERATED USAGE DESCRIPTIONS -->

### Configuration

<!-- AUTOGENERATED CONFIG DESCRIPTIONS -->

### Description

Run this in a package directory to bump the version and write the new data
back to `package.json`, `package-lock.json`, and, if present,
`npm-shrinkwrap.json`.

The `newversion` argument should be a valid semver string, a valid second
argument to [semver.inc](https://github.com/npm/node-semver#functions) (one
of `patch`, `minor`, `major`, `prepatch`, `preminor`, `premajor`,
`prerelease`), or `from-git`. In the second case, the existing version will
be incremented by 1 in the specified field.  `from-git` will try to read
the latest git tag, and use that as the new npm version.

If run in a git repo, it will also create a version commit and tag.  This
behavior is controlled by `git-tag-version` (see below), and can be
disabled on the command line by running `npm --no-git-tag-version version`.
It will fail if the working directory is not clean, unless the `-f` or
`--force` flag is set.

If supplied with `-m` or [`--message` config](/using-npm/config#message) option,
npm will use it as a commit message when creating a version commit.  If the
`message` config contains `%s` then that will be replaced with the resulting
version number. For example:

```bash
npm version patch -m "Upgrade to %s for reasons"
```

If the [`sign-git-tag` config](/using-npm/config#sign-git-tag) is set, then the
tag will be signed using the `-s` flag to git. Note that you must have a default
GPG key set up in your git config for this to work properly. For example:

```bash
$ npm config set sign-git-tag true
$ npm version patch

You need a passphrase to unlock the secret key for
user: "isaacs (http://blog.izs.me/) <i@izs.me>"
2048-bit RSA key, ID 6C481CF6, created 2010-08-31

Enter passphrase:
```

If `preversion`, `version`, or `postversion` are in the `scripts` property
of the package.json, they will be executed as part of running `npm
version`.

The exact order of execution is as follows:

1. Check to make sure the git working directory is clean before we get
   started.  Your scripts may add files to the commit in future steps.
   This step is skipped if the `--force` flag is set.
2. Run the `preversion` script. These scripts have access to the old
   `version` in package.json.  A typical use would be running your full
   test suite before deploying.  Any files you want added to the commit
   should be explicitly added using `git add`.
3. Bump `version` in `package.json` as requested (`patch`, `minor`,
   `major`, etc).
4. Run the `version` script. These scripts have access to the new `version`
   in package.json (so they can incorporate it into file headers in
   generated files for example).  Again, scripts should explicitly add
   generated files to the commit using `git add`.
5. Commit and tag.
6. Run the `postversion` script. Use it to clean up the file system or
   automatically push the commit and/or tag.

Take the following example:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "preversion": "npm test",
    "version": "npm run build && git add -A dist",
    "postversion": "git push && git push --tags && rm -rf build/temp"
  }
}
```

This runs all your tests and proceeds only if they pass. Then runs your
`build` script, and adds everything in the `dist` directory to the commit.
After the commit, it pushes the new commit and tag up to the server, and
deletes the `build/temp` directory.

#### Workspaces and Inter-Dependencies

When using `npm workspaces`, you might have multiple packages that depend on one another. For example:

```json
// package-a/package.json
{
  "name": "package-a",
  "version": "1.0.2"
}

// package-b/package.json
{
  "name": "package-b",
  "version": "1.0.2",
  "dependencies": {
    "package-a": "^1.0.2"
  }
}
```

#### Changes When Running `npm version -ws --save`

1. **Bump the versions in each workspace’s `package.json`.**
2. **Attempt to update cross-dependencies** where the new version fits into the declared semver range.

#### Note on `--save`
By default, `npm version -ws` will bump the versions in each workspace without automatically 
updating dependency references across workspaces. Including the `--save` flag triggers a 
minimal reify operation that updates references **if** your semver range allows it.

For example, if a dependency is declared as `^1.0.2`, a minor bump from `1.0.2` to `1.1.0` 
is valid under the caret range, so npm updates the reference to `^1.1.0`. However, 
moving from `1.x.x` to `2.x.x` is outside of the caret range. In that case, 
you must broaden the range (e.g., `">=1.0.0 <3.0.0"`, `"^1.0.0 || ^2.0.0"`, etc.) or 
manually update it to allow a major bump.

It's important to note, Reify takes place even without the `--save` flag. However, in that case, 
package.json is not modified to reflect updated dependency references. 

### See Also

* [npm init](/commands/npm-init)
* [npm run-script](/commands/npm-run-script)
* [npm scripts](/using-npm/scripts)
* [package.json](/configuring-npm/package-json)
* [config](/using-npm/config)
